hey guys in this methods lesson we're
going to look at TOEFL reading skill
number two which is the question type
guess vocabulary from context so first
of all what does it look like on test
day it will look something like this on
the left hand side you will see the
question on the right hand side you will
see a paragraph or the text right so
what do you have to do well you need to
guess the meaning of the highlighted or
emboldened word from the context by
choosing one of the answer options
provided ok we need a method to be able
to do this effectively the method is
this I'm just gonna admit I'll go
through the method briefly with you it's
read find replace and then choose okay
these are the key words here I'm gonna
go into the method in detail right now
so let's apply this method step 1 read
the highlighted word in the question and
look at the answer option so we want to
focus here first of course and the
highlighted word or the embolden word is
exacerbate then we want to look at the
answer options because we want to find
out exacerbate is closest in meaning to
decrease we can provide or worsen well
we can't really tell just from looking
at this exacerbate well okay maybe if
you know this word perhaps you can
actually just select it immediately from
these four options but sometimes it
won't be that easy sometimes the
embolden word and the for interruptions
it the embolden word can be replaced by
possibly two of them or even three of
them and it's going to depend on the
context of the paragraph as to which one
is actually right
okay so mmm then we can let's go to step
two step two is find the highlighted
word in the passage and focus on that
sentence so we look here and we can see
the highlighted word exacerbate we want
to focus on the sentence the context
that it's in which is the proposed tax
rise will only exacerbate financial
problem
for low-income earners the proposed tax
rise will only exacerbate financial
problems for low-income learners step 3
we now replace the highlighted word with
each option and eliminate incorrect ones
so what we do is we say the proposed tax
rise will only decrease well decrease
financial problems for low-income
earners that doesn't make sense the
proposed tax rise will only weaken
financial problems for low-income
earners so what we are effectively doing
here is we are inserting that for
different options to find the correct
one because we can see we can we can we
can understand the meaning by replacing
and swapping each one and you can start
to say to yourself well that doesn't
make sense so eliminate it and we
replace it with the next one that
doesn't make sense so we eliminate it
replace it with the next one and so on
and so forth until let me just skip
through these you get the idea step four
we have to choose the correct word which
is worsen so look at this let's let's
see why so if you do not know what this
word exacerbate means and they will
often be complex words the proposed tax
rise will only worsen financial problems
for low income earners will only
exacerbate and worsen these are the two
that mean there are similar things in
which case you can replace it here cool
so it helps to understand the tone of
the sentence so the tone of this
sentence is negative it contains the
word problem financial problems
therefore we want to choose a word from
the list that is also negative in tone
now worsen and weaken and decrease but
worsens the one there's another thing
going on here - which is called a
collocation a collocation so let's just
strip this sentence back here let's just
look at this here the proposed tax rise
will only exacerbate financial problems
well the
actually a collocation here which is you
exacerbate problems so sometimes let's
let's replace it so you can decrease
problems weaken problems provide
problems or worse and problems well we
can see that yes the collocation is
exacerbate here and and and the one you
can replace it with is worsen so that
may help you as well
cool now it's your turn so let's do this
one I'm gonna give you 30 seconds to do
this one here
and stop cool how did you go let's go
through the method and see if we can get
this answer now you may have just looked
at this and said okay I know which word
it relates to most but there's another
there's possibly too for me I say or
this one or possibly this one sadness
and hell don't have the same meaning but
either way let's run through the method
so we can get this right so we want to
read the highlighted word which is
nirvana we want to read these four
answer options which are sadness
eternity hell and paradise we want to
then go across and find the word in the
text here then what we want to do is we
want to replace them so let's say this
so the smell of cinnamon has a unique
property it smelled transports me
magically to my mother's kitchen when I
was a kid I imagined myself biting into
one of her homemade pumpkin and cinnamon
pies and I am transported briefly to
sadness briefly to eternity briefly to
hell briefly to paradise okay fine so
then we've swapped each one and we've
also thought about the tone of this
paragraph as well and of course the
answer is paradise that's the best
possible choice here let's do let's
think about the tone this time it's
positive it's talking about happy happy
memories
so sadness and hell are not options we
could have replaced it with eternity but
it's just not quite the right word what
this really is about is word choice at
every moment when we're speaking we have
the option to choose a variety of
different words and usually they're
synonyms they're synonymous but usually
there'll be one word that will be most
precise okay so let's say if you looked
in the thesaurus or the dictionary
there's heaven and eternity and Nirvana
might be synonyms but only one of these
in the context of the paragraph will be
correct so you need to get good at
choosing words precisely being precise
it's a great skill it's a great skill
let's do another one I want you to do
this one here I want you to run through
the method your time starts now
I'll give you a bit longer because this
paragraph is a bit longer
all right so yes you have to read the
paragraph gives you the tone the
paragraph will provide you with the tone
but it's only really that sentence that
provides the context I suppose the
paragraph is providing context as well
but it's that sentence where the word is
located that gives you the really the
really important context so let's run
through the method so first thing we
want to do is read the highlighted word
which is mislead mislead okay fine it's
a verb and we want to look at the answer
options here so we've got mislead
protect disagree engage and full okay
fine then we want to find the
highlighted word in the passage here and
we want to read this sentence so it says
science can often mislead the uninformed
okay we don't even really need to read
the rest of the sentence just science
can often mislead the uninformed
so let's now swap these words here and
see which one fits best which one has
the most precise meaning and similar
meaning to this one here so science can
often protect the uninformed yeah
science can often disagree the ant well
this one's definitely wrong because of
grammatical reasons science can often
engage the uninformed no not happy with
that one either science can often fool
the uninformed as untested theories are
accepted as fact I think we've got our
answer which is indeed full fine science
will often mislead the uninformed as
untested theories are accepted as fact
you can pause the video and read about
the prefixes here which will be helpful
for you let's do one more question here
we go
run through the method you have 30
seconds starting now
and that was actually 45 seconds because
it was a you definitely need to do you
need to you don't need too deep read the
paragraph but you do need to deep you do
need to read the paragraph even if you
just skim over it to understand what
it's about we can see that this one was
about languages and dialects so let's
run through the method here so number
one we read the highlighted word
intelligible intelligible we can see
there's something in here about
intelligence perhaps you can break this
word down then we've got ambiguous
understandable obvious and recognizable
then we find the word here in the
paragraph and we want to read this
sentence says dialects are varieties of
a particular language and are closely
related despite their differences they
are often mutually intelligible now why
did I go back to sentences because here
it says despite their differences and
it's talking about dialects so I needed
to go back in the sentence there to read
before it or else this sentence would
not make sense on its own so sometimes
you may need to do that whoopsy sorry
so dialects of varieties of a particular
language and are closely related despite
the differences of dialects they are
often mutually intelligible they are
often mutually ambiguous mutually
understandable mutually obvious mutually
recognizable hmm now we have to choose
the one that's closest in meaning what
do you guess feel free to type it into
the comments below
the answer is understandable so these
could be interchanged so ambiguous is
not right because it contradicts the
meaning of the sentence obvious does not
logically match the meaning of the
sentence recognizable is incorrect
because we are talking about dialects
forms of languages that are understood
by other speakers therefore
understandable can replace intelligible
in this context because of the reference
to dialects and languages thanks for
watching I hope that was helpful be sure
to do the practice
questions that follow this so you can
nail it on test day